Drawing Pedigree Charts from Simple Text Descriptions
Proposal
Pedigree charts are used in Medicine to record a patient’s family history. They are particularly useful to document genetic diseases that can be inherited from one generation to the next. The example below shows a pedigree chart of a (fictitious) family where multiple individuals are affected by breast cancer:

In most clinical settings, pedigree charts are still drawn by hand on paper, which limits their utility. Pedigree drawing software tools exist but are complicated to use and/or record their data in proprietary formats that are unsuitable for medical research purposes.

In this project, we aim to develop a pedigree drawing engine that can create pedigree charts as the example above from simple textual descriptions. The concept is similar to Graphviz (https://www.graphviz.org/) and mermaid (https://mermaidjs.github.io/), two projects that allow creating graphs and diagrams using a simple text syntax.

For example, the above pedigree drawing could be created through simple descriptions like:

ID#1 has_name “Jasmine Smith-Doe”
ID#1 has_mother ID#3
ID#1 has_sister ID#2

First Meeting Notes
After our first meeting on Sept 20, we updated the workflow as follows:
I want to be able to describe family relations with simple text descriptions such as 'A has_father B'. These text descriptions should be translated into a PED file and a pedigree drawing.
The pedigree drawing should be updated each time a new command is added, to provide feedback on what the pedigree looks like. Conceptually similar to this video on DiagrammerR:
https://rich-iannone.github.io/DiagrammeR/mov/DiagrammeR.mp4
DiagrammeR (an R implementation of the Graphvis dot language) could be used to create the pedigree drawings if the layout engine can be tweaked to follow the pedigree diagram rules (all edges are straight lines, only use right angles etc). Alternatively, the pedigree drawings can be created using the kinship2 package. 
The application should calculate or guess missing information wherever possible. For example:
‘A has_son B’ implies that B is ‘male’, so this property should be set automatically
every person in a PED file has to have 2 parents. Thus the statement 'A has_son B' needs to create a PED file with entries for individuals A and B, but also for the mother of B.
‘A has_sister B’ implies that B is ‘female’ and that A and B have the same 2 parents
The list of all possible terms is listed below. 
List of Terms:
Individuals (Nodes)
A is_male
A is_female
A is_deceased
A has_name "John Doe"
A has_DOB "13 Oct 1970"
A is_affected (if there is only one disease in the pedigree)
A affected_with X
A affected_with X,Y,Z (up to 4 diseases)
to consider:
add such data in bulk for multiple individual as a special dataframe
Relationships (Edges)
A father_of B
A mother_of B
A son_of B
A daughter_of B
A child_of B (use unspecified gender symbol for A: ⬥)
A brother_of B
A sister_of B
A partner_of B
A separated_from B (if no longer a partner)
to consider:
A has_children 5: creates 5 children (and a partner if needed), all children get an autogenerated ID and indeterminate gender
A has_children 3:2:1: creates 3 sons, 2 daughters, 1 unknown gender


